# Brain-Stroke-Prediction using Deep Learning

  An interruption in the flow of blood to the brain causes a stroke. According to a recent study, brain stroke is the main cause of adult death and disability. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), brain stroke is the leading cause of death and property damage globally. A stroke's chance of death can be reduced by up to 50% by early recognition of its signs and symptoms. Adults over 55 are more prone than younger adults to experience a stroke. This incapacitating and frequently fatal type of stroke, which causes cerebral hemorrhage, is becoming more common. To forecast the likelihood that a cerebral stroke would occur, numerous machine learning (ML) models were created. These are harder to debug and take longer to train the model on. Additionally, these are not appropriate for big databases. The proposed approach uses the CNN algorithm, a deep learning approach, to make predictions. It consists of an autoencoder for capturing and removing non-linear correlations between parameters as well as a multilayer perceptron for the prediction task. When the proposed approach is compared to the current system, it demonstrates an improvement in the ability to predict strokes. The accuracy of the proposed method was 89%.
  
  Our proposed model's Convolution Neural Network (CNN). CNN is a Deep Learning (DL) algorithm that uses accumulated data to forecast a person's risk of having a brain stroke. The architecture consists of two networks: an autoencoder network and a multilayer perceptron network.
